# Built-in Functions

The python interpreter has all of these functions always available.

|               |          | Built In Functions |         |                  |
|---------------|-------------|--------------|------------|------------------|
| abs()         | dict()      | help()       | min()      | setattr()        |
| all()         | dir()       | hex()        | next()     | slice()          |
| any()         | divmod()    | id()         | object()   | sorted()         |
| ascii()       | enumerate() | input()      | oct()      | staticmethod()   |
| bin()         | eval()      | int()        | open()     | str()            |
| bool()        | exec()      | isinstance() | ord()      | sum()            |
| bytearray()   | filter()    | issubclass() | pow()      | super()          |
| bytes()       | float()     | iter()       | print()    | tuple()          |
| callable()    | format()    | len()        | property() | type()           |
| chr()         | frozenset() | list()       | range()    | vars()           |
| classmethod() | getattr()   | locals()     | repr()     | zip()            |
| compile()     | globals()   | map()        | reversed() | \_\_import\_\_() |
| complex()     | hasattr()   | max()        | round()    |                  |
| delattr()     | hash()      | memoryview() | set()      |                  |

## A

_abs_, _all_, _any_, _ascii_

### abs(x)

Returns the absolute value of a number; accepts int or float. If `x` is complex, its magnitude is returned.

### all(iterable)

Return `True` if all elements of the `iterable` are true (or if it's empty.)

### any(iterable)

Return `True` if _any_ of the `iterable` is true; if empty, returns `False`.

### ascii(object)
Returns a string containing a printable representation of an object, but escapes non-ASCII characters using. Generates a string similar to that returned by repr() in Py2.

```py3
>>> print("Jeg drikker øl på Roskilde!")
"Jeg drikker øl på Roskilde"

>>> ascii("Jeg drikker øl på Roskilde!")
"'Jeg drikker \\xf8l p\\xe5 Roskilde!'"
```

## B

_bin_, _bool_, _bytearray_, _byte_

### bin(x)

Convert an integer number to a binary string prefixed with "0b". The result is a valid Python expression; if `x` is not an int object, it has to define an `__index__()` method that returns an int. '0b' can be omitted if desired.

```py3
>>> bin(3)
'0b11'
>>> bin(-10)
'-0b1010'
>>> format(14, '#b'), format(14, 'b')
('0b1110', '1110')
>>> f'{14:#b}', f'{14:b}'
('0b1110', '1110')
```

### _class_ bool([x])

Return a Boolean value of `True` or `False`. `x` is converted using the [standard truth testing procedure](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#truth). `bool` is a subclass of `int` and cannot be subclassed further.

### _class_ byteArray([source[, encoding[, errors]]])

Return a new array of bytes; this class is a mutable sequence of integers from 0 to 255. It offers the most methods of mutables as well as the methods of bytes. The optional `source` parameter can be used to initialize the array in a few different ways.

* If it's a string, you must also give the encoding parameter; it then converts the string to bytes using str.encode().
* If its an int, the array will have that size and be initialized with null bytes.
* If its an objects conforming to buffer, a read-only buffer will be used to initialize the bytes.
* If it's an iterable, it must be an iterable of integers in the range 0 to 255.

Without an argument an array of size 0 is created.

### _class_ bytes([source[, encoding[, errors]]])

Returns a new bytes object which is an **immutable** sequence of ints in the range 0 to 255. `bytes` is an immutable version of `bytearray`; constructor arguments are handled the same way. `bytes` objects can also be created with literals.

## C

_callable_, _chr_, _classmethod_, _compile_, _complex_

### callable(object)

`True` if the `object` argument appears callable, `False` if not. `True` may still fail but `False` will _never_ succeed. Instances are callable if their class has a `__call__()` method.

### chr(i)

Return the character whos Unicode is the integer `i`. Ex., `chr(97)` returns "a". This is the inverse of `ord()`.

### @classmethod

Transform a method into a class method. Class methods receive the class as implicit first argument; to declare a class method, use this idiom:

```py3
class C:
    @classmethod
    def f(cls, arg1, arg2, ...): ...
```

The `@classmethod` form is a function decorator which can be called either on the class (`C.f()`) or an instance (`C().f()`); the instance is ignored except for its class.

### compile(source, filename, mode, flags=0, dont_inherit=False, optimize=-1)

Compiles `source` into a code or AST object. Code objects can be executed by `exec()` or `eval()`. `source` can be a string, byte string, or an AST object.

The `filename` argument should give the file from which the code was read; pass a recognizible value if it wasnt read from a file (`'<string>' is commonly used`).

The `mode` argument specifies what kind of code must be compiled. This argument can be `exec` if `source` is a sequence of statements, `eval` if it consists of a single expression, or `single` if it consists of a single interactive statement.

The optionalarguments `flags` and `dont_inherit` control which future statements affect the compilation of `source`. If neither is present (or both are zero), the code is compiled with those future statements that are in effect in the code that is calling `compile()`.

### _class_ complex([real[, imag]])

Returns a complex number with the value `real + imag*1j` or converts a string/number to a complex number. If the first param is a string, it will be interpreted as a complex number and the function **must** be called without a second parameter. The second parameter can never be a string. Each argument may be any numeric type. If `imag` is omitted, it defaults to zero. If both arguments are omitted, returns `0j`.


## D

_delattr_, _dict_, _dir_, _divmod_

### delattr(object, name)

This is a relative of `setattr()`. The arguments are an object and a string; the string must be the name of one of the object's attributes. **This function deletes the named attribute**, provided the object allows it. `delattr(x, 'foobar')` is the same as `del x.foobar`.

### _class_ dict(**kwarg)

* _class_ dict(**kwarg)
* _class_ dict(mapping, **kwarg)
* _class_ dict(iterable, **kwarg)

Creates a new dictionary. The `dict` object is the dictionary class.

### dir([object])

Without arguments, returns the list of names in the current local scope. With an arg, attempts to return a list of valid attributes for the object.

If the object has a method named `__dir__()`, the method will be called and must return the list of attributes. This allows objects that implement custom `__getattr__()` or `__getattribute__()` to customize the way `dir()` reports their attributes.

If no `__dir__()` is provided, the function tries to gather the information from the `__dict__` attribute if defined and from its type object.

The default `dir()` mechanism behaves differently with different types of objects as it attempts to produce the most relevant, rather than complete information.

* If the object is a module object, the list contains the names of the module’s attributes.
* If the object is a type or class object, the list contains the names of its attributes, and recursively of the attributes of its bases.
* Otherwise, the list contains the object’s attributes’ names, the names of its class’s attributes, and recursively of the attributes of its class’s base classes.

### divmod(a, b)

Takes two non-complex numbers as arguments and returns a pair of numbers consisting of their quotient and remainder when using integer division. Literally "divide" "modulo". `divmod(9, 2)` will return `(4, 1)`.

## E

_enumerate_, _eval_, _exec_

### enumerate(iterable, start=0)

### eval(expression, globals=None, locals=None)

### exec (object[, globals[, locals]])

## F

_filter_, _float_, _format_, _frozenset_

### filter(function, iterable)

### _class_ float([x])

### format(value[, format_spec])

### _class_ frozenset([iterable])

## G

_getattr_, _globals_

### getattr(obj, name[, default])

### globals()

## H

### hasattr(object, name)

### hash(object)

### help([object])

### hex(x)

## I

### id(object)

### input([prompt])

### _class_ int(x, base=10)

### isinstance(object, classinfo)

### issubclass(class, classinfo)

### iter(object[, sentinel])

## J | K

None!

## L

### len(s)

### _class_ class([iterable])

### locals()

## M

### map(function, iterable, ...)

### max(iterable)

### memoryview(obj)

### min()

## N

### next(iterator[, default])

## O

### _class_ object

### oct(x)

### open()

### ord(c)

## P

### pow(x, y[, z])

### print(*objects, sep='', end='\n, file=sys.stdout, flush=False)

### _class_ property(fget=None, fset=None, fdel=None, doc=None)

## Q

None!

## R

### range()

### repr(object)

### reversed(seq)

### round(number[, ndigits])

## S

### _class_ set([iterable])

### setattr(object, name, value)

### _class_ slice(stop)

### sorted(iterable, *, key=None, reverse=False)

### @staticmethod

### _class_ str(object='')

### sum(iterable[, start])

### super([type[, object-or-type]])

## T

### tuple([iterable])

### _class_ type(object)

## U

None!

## V

### vars([object])

## W, X, Y

None!

## Z

### zip(*iterables)

## \_

### \_\_import\_\_(name, globals=None, locals=None, fromlist=(), level=0)

